bootstrap/BOOTSTRAP.md, before:

# Bootstrap kubriX

## Fully automated bootstrapping

Steps:

1. create new empty customer repo on your Git-Server (GitLab, GitHub, Gitea, ...).

    IMPORTANT: the repo needs to be empty (also no initial README!!!)

2. create an access token for this new repo with write access
    
    Instead of a newly created access token you can also use your personal access tokens,
    but this is not recommended since your personal access token has probably more permissions than needed.

3. set the repo url and token in this variables like this:

    ```
    export KUBRIX_CUSTOMER_REPO="https://github.com/kubriX-demo/kubriX-demo-customerXY"
    export KUBRIX_CUSTOMER_REPO_TOKEN="blabla"
    ```

4. optional: set the DNS provider, which external-dns should connect to.

    default: ionos  
    supported: ionos, route53, stackit

    ```
    export KUBRIX_CUSTOMER_DNS_PROVIDER="ionos"
    ```

5. optional: set the domain, under which kubriX should be available.

    This domain will be used by external-dns. Your provider in step 4 needs to be able to manage this domain with the credentials set in step 8.

    ```
    export KUBRIX_CUSTOMER_DOMAIN="demo-johnny.kubrix.cloud"
    ```

    if this variable is not set, a subdomain of "kubrix.cloud" is randomly created (for example "demo-2faf23d.kubrix.cloud")

6. optional: set the kubrix target type which should be used

    ```
    export KUBRIX_CUSTOMER_TARGET_TYPE="DEMO-STACK"
    ```

    if this variable is not set, "DEMO-STACK" is used.

7. create a new Kubernetes cluster and be sure that kubectl is connected to it. check with `kubectl cluster-info`

8. provide external-dns secrets depending on your DNS provider

    __ionos__

    create a secret with your DNS api-key like this:

    ```
    kubectl create ns external-dns
    kubectl create secret generic ionos-credentials -n external-dns --from-literal=api-key='your-api-key'
    ```

    __aws__

    create a `credentials` file like this:

    ```
    [default]
    aws_access_key_id = your-key-id
    aws_secret_access_key = your-access-key
    ```

    and then create the secret on the K8s cluster based on this `credentials` file:
    ```
    kubectl create ns external-dns
    kubectl create secret generic -n external-dns sx-external-dns --from-file credentials
    ```

    __stackit__

    ```
    kubectl create ns external-dns
    kubectl create secret generic external-dns-webhook -n external-dns --from-literal=AUTH_TOKEN='your-auth-token'
    --from-literal=PROJECT_ID='your-project-id'
    ```

9. If you need to prepare something else on your cluster before kubriX gets installed, do this now.


10. Then run this command in your home directory in your linux bash:

    ```
    curl -H 'Cache-Control: no-cache, no-store' https://raw.githubusercontent.com/suxess-it/kubriX/refs/heads/main/bootstrap/bootstrap.sh | bash -s
    ```

It will create a new kubriX repo based on your parameters and installs kubriX based on your created kubriX repo on your connected K8s cluster.


## background information

### customer specific parameters

In `bootstrap/customer-config.yaml` the customer specific parameters are set,
which are then used for rendering the chart values files.

### Rendering values templates

To create values files for specific instances in an automated 
way we render the values files with the template renderer `gomplate`

Source: https://github.com/hairyhenderson/gomplate
Docs: https://docs.gomplate.ca/

The command to render all values templates ending with '.yaml.tmpl' 
and write the result in the corresponding '.yaml' in the same directory:

```
bootstrap/bootstrap.sh
```

The used variables for the templates are defined in `bootstrap/customer-config.yaml` 
and are stored in the context `kubriX`.

### Example

Content of the `bootstrap/customer-config.yaml` is

```
domain: demo.kubrix.cloud
```

A `values-demo.yaml.tmpl` with the content
```
hostname: foo.{{ kubriX.domain }}
```

will then result in a `values-demo.yaml` with the content
```
hostname: foo.demo.kubrix.cloud
```

### Escaping helm brackets

When you want to use brackets `{{ }}` also in your values files 
(when using [variables in values files](https://helm.sh/docs/howto/charts_tips_and_tricks/#using-the-tpl-function) 
which should not get rendered by gomplate, then you need to escape them like this:

```
hostname: foo.{{`{{ .Values.global.bla }}`}}
```

then the output will be

```
hostname: foo.{{ .Values.global.bla }}
```

This is the same syntax as in argocd applicationsets in helm templates.

Commit message:

feat: use .secrets framework for github oauth app secrets
Signed-off-by: Johannes Kleinlercher <johannes.kleinlercher@suxess-it.com>

bootstrap/BOOTSTRAP.md, after:

# Bootstrap kubriX

## Fully automated bootstrapping

Steps:

1. create new empty customer repo on your Git-Server (GitLab, GitHub, Gitea, ...).

    IMPORTANT: the repo needs to be empty (also no initial README!!!)

2. create an access token for this new repo with write access
    
    Instead of a newly created access token you can also use your personal access tokens,
    but this is not recommended since your personal access token has probably more permissions than needed.

3. set the repo url and token in this variables like this:

    ```
    export KUBRIX_CUSTOMER_REPO="https://github.com/kubriX-demo/kubriX-demo-customerXY"
    export KUBRIX_CUSTOMER_REPO_TOKEN="blabla"
    ```

4. optional: set the DNS provider, which external-dns should connect to.

    default: ionos  
    supported: ionos, route53, stackit

    ```
    export KUBRIX_CUSTOMER_DNS_PROVIDER="ionos"
    ```

5. optional: set the domain, under which kubriX should be available.

    This domain will be used by external-dns. Your provider in step 4 needs to be able to manage this domain with the credentials set in step 8.

    ```
    export KUBRIX_CUSTOMER_DOMAIN="demo-johnny.kubrix.cloud"
    ```

    if this variable is not set, a subdomain of "kubrix.cloud" is randomly created (for example "demo-2faf23d.kubrix.cloud")

6. optional: set the kubrix target type which should be used

    ```
    export KUBRIX_CUSTOMER_TARGET_TYPE="DEMO-STACK"
    ```

    if this variable is not set, "DEMO-STACK" is used.

7. create a new Kubernetes cluster and be sure that kubectl is connected to it. check with `kubectl cluster-info`

8. provide external-dns secrets depending on your DNS provider

    __ionos__

    create a secret with your DNS api-key like this:

    ```
    kubectl create ns external-dns
    kubectl create secret generic ionos-credentials -n external-dns --from-literal=api-key='your-api-key'
    ```

    __aws__

    create a `credentials` file like this:

    ```
    [default]
    aws_access_key_id = your-key-id
    aws_secret_access_key = your-access-key
    ```

    and then create the secret on the K8s cluster based on this `credentials` file:
    ```
    kubectl create ns external-dns
    kubectl create secret generic -n external-dns sx-external-dns --from-file credentials
    ```

    __stackit__

    ```
    kubectl create ns external-dns
    kubectl create secret generic external-dns-webhook -n external-dns --from-literal=AUTH_TOKEN='your-auth-token'
    --from-literal=PROJECT_ID='your-project-id'
    ```

9. If you need to prepare something else on your cluster before kubriX gets installed, do this now.


10. Then run this command in your home directory in your linux bash:

    ```
    curl -H 'Cache-Control: no-cache, no-store' https://raw.githubusercontent.com/suxess-it/kubriX/refs/heads/main/bootstrap/bootstrap.sh | bash -s
    ```

    It will create a new kubriX repo based on your parameters and installs kubriX based on your created kubriX repo on your connected K8s cluster.

11. Create Github OAuth App and set secrets in vault

    The Platform-Portal authenticates via GitHub OAuth App. Therefore you need to create a OAuth App in your [developer settings](https://github.com/organizations/YOUR-ORG/settings/applications).
    Click the button "New OAuth App".
    
   Homepage URL and Authorization callback URL must match your `backstage.${KUBRIX_CUSTOMER_DOMAIN}`

    - Homepage URL: `backstage.demo-johnny.kubrix.cloud`
    - Authorization callback URL: `backstage.demo-johnny.kubrix.cloud/api/auth/github`

    ![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/fd513ff7-3501-4299-aab2-41feae1028bc)


    Use "Client ID" to define the variable "GITHUB_CLIENTID" in the step below. Generate a "Client secret" and use the secret to define the variable "GITHUB_CLIENTSECRET" in the step below.

    Then set GITHUB_CLIENTSECRET and GITHUB_CLIENTID from your Github OAuth App and set them in vault via kubectl/curl:

    ```
    export GITHUB_CLIENTID="<client-id-from-step-before>"
    export GITHUB_CLIENTSECRET="<client-secret-from-step-before>"
    export VAULT_HOSTNAME=$(kubectl get ingress -o jsonpath='{.items[*].spec.rules[*].host}' -n vault)
    export VAULT_TOKEN=$(kubectl get secret -n vault vault-init -o=jsonpath='{.data.root_token}'  | base64 -d)
    curl -k --header "X-Vault-Token:$VAULT_TOKEN" --request POST --data "{\"data\": {\"GITHUB_CLIENTSECRET\": \"${GITHUB_CLIENTSECRET}\", \"GITHUB_CLIENTID\":
    \"${GITHUB_CLIENTID}\"}}" https://${VAULT_HOSTNAME}/v1/kubrix-kv/data/portal/backstage/base
    kubectl rollout restart deployment -n backstage sx-backstage
    ```

## background information

### customer specific parameters

In `bootstrap/customer-config.yaml` the customer specific parameters are set,
which are then used for rendering the chart values files.

### Rendering values templates

To create values files for specific instances in an automated 
way we render the values files with the template renderer `gomplate`

Source: https://github.com/hairyhenderson/gomplate
Docs: https://docs.gomplate.ca/

The command to render all values templates ending with '.yaml.tmpl' 
and write the result in the corresponding '.yaml' in the same directory:

```
bootstrap/bootstrap.sh
```

The used variables for the templates are defined in `bootstrap/customer-config.yaml` 
and are stored in the context `kubriX`.

### Example

Content of the `bootstrap/customer-config.yaml` is

```
domain: demo.kubrix.cloud
```

A `values-demo.yaml.tmpl` with the content
```
hostname: foo.{{ kubriX.domain }}
```

will then result in a `values-demo.yaml` with the content
```
hostname: foo.demo.kubrix.cloud
```

### Escaping helm brackets

When you want to use brackets `{{ }}` also in your values files 
(when using [variables in values files](https://helm.sh/docs/howto/charts_tips_and_tricks/#using-the-tpl-function) 
which should not get rendered by gomplate, then you need to escape them like this:

```
hostname: foo.{{`{{ .Values.global.bla }}`}}
```

then the output will be

```
hostname: foo.{{ .Values.global.bla }}
```

This is the same syntax as in argocd applicationsets in helm templates.
